He describes everything we are discussing in the pure land, in all these different pure lands, in
different environments, what in the Rana teachings said, all this, the source of this, all of this,
this is uncompounded.
Source of everything is uncompounded. That is love. Now, what that means? Source of all is uncomp
ounded. What that uncompounded is?
What? No. It can't be divided. Yeah, it can be divided. But this all source of all, what's called
the uncompounded is, now we're not looking outside.
Now, of course, you're not also talking. If I say simply, it's your mind. Your mind, your nature of
the mind, or my nature of the mind, is uncompounded. Uncompounded.
Now, you can think, is your mind is compounded or uncompounded? You can debate with the Buddha now.
That's what it said, the Buddha summoned by the city.
Nature's mind is uncompounded. Nature of the mind. Your mind and everyone's nature is uncompounded.
And then, there's more explanation of this mind now, uncompounded.
Compounded means what, actually? What? Compounded? Yeah. Made up of other things? That's true.
Compounded means made up of other things. Made up of many combinations. Compounded. This is
compounded. This, all objects are compounded. Compounded. So, it's uncompounded. Mind, nature of
the mind, our mind is uncompounded.
Now, more or more, turn the page. Next page. Page two. What is it? Self-arising. Self-arising. You
ask, it's true? You ask that. That's what it says. It's uncompounded. Self-arising.
That means there's no any other factors, no any other conditions, cause, arises. It's come. It's
self-arising. That's what's called self-arising. Self-arising.
Then, next again, explain more about this. Infinite. It's infinite. Now, mind, nature of the mind
is infinite.
That means your nature, mind, mind, nature of the mind is infinite. Infinite. And what we call the
infinite, we call mind is infinite, nature of the mind is infinite.
And then, again, more or more, explain here. Next one is what? Inconceivable. Inconceivable. Also,
this is what our beauty, we have this magic here now. This is inconceivable.
And here also is said, inexpressible. Inexpressible. So now, mind is what? And then here, more or
more, we say this. Also, within this nature, there is no even label of the names of the samsara nir
vanas.
Within this mind, nature of the mind, there's no name of the samsara, there's no names of the nir
vana. Don't mention there is samsara nirvanas. Even there's no names. That's what we say.
That is nature of the mind. Your nature of mind, my nature of the mind, mind, that is, so it is
uncombounded, it is self-arising, infinite, inconceivable, inexpressible, even the names and labels
of this. Names of the samsara nirvanas.
So this is the source of everything. This is the source of everything. Our old feelings, our old
emotions, are also arising from this.
Love and compassion, wisdom, what we talk is so spiritual, it's also arising from this. Everything
what we talk, what we discuss, is all arising from this. And all is also merging there.
Just merging. That's what's called is here. The vastness. It's vastness. There's no cloud at all.
No congestion. And yet there's no shortages. All arising. All coming.
We never heard, "We are the shortage of conceptions." You heard anything? That's what this nature
is. This is now as zoki teaching. It's pointing to you, to us. This is what nature is, mind is, is.
We take care of this. We're taking care of everything. That's what it is. Really, if we take care
of this, we're taking care of everything.
In order to do this, there is meditation, practicing. All this brain calm and peace, that will be
more relaxing. Those are lined up to this nature, naturally.
Caring with the consumption, going up to each consumption, all that, then we are almost like
following our shadows. Shadows, and then it's most tired. All right. And then we have regulated
that more and more things. It's kind of like, what's called, kitties chasing the tails.
That's it. Going on and around. It's one's own. It's just much more tired. Maybe at the beginning,
it's quite good. Fun. Fun.
It's pretty tired. Boring. So this is what it is. And here, that's it. Here's it. Knowing this,
next third line, knowing this, satinist, is Buddhahold.
If you realize this nature, you realize and abide in this nature, then what is? Buddhahold. That is
Buddhahold.
Or your way to the Buddhahold. Or your way to the Naranas. Naranas. And opposite of knowing, what
is this? Then here's it.
Unknowing. Beings, wonder, wondrous, compensous. Then when in this myth, knowing, unknowing beings,
then wandering in the samsaras. Samsaras.
Samsara is one's own creation, display of this mind, as we said. It started with unknowing, then
grasping, or ignorance, grasping, and then all those different emotions, then created all these
massive things.
It's kind of like we're carried by nightmares, nightmares, carried on and on. And we had this, we
're wondering, in that our territories, generally it's called samsara.
But if samsara is kind of more specifically to highlight of the territorial way, how we're
wondering that? It's called the three rams here.
The next step is, may all beings of the three rams, rams. That's what it's called. Three rams.
Three rams are what? In Buddha's teaching, you see desire rams, poem rams, and poem-less rams.
In Buddha's teaching, I'll say that there's desire rams, called rams of desires, and rams of the
poems, and poem-less, rams of poem-less.
There's three rams. And we are, we are in the desire rams.
And what that means is desire rams. In the teaching it says, desire rams, kind of, beings are more
desired to the sensory place, you know, object with a particular, such as male and female contracts
.
Contract, that is very, very much desired. Whether you are, what kind of poems you are, whether you
are women, beings, whether you are animals, or even poems you are, you are kind of inclined with
that contract, pleasures, or the desire, and that's what is known as desire rams.
Desire rams. And then there's another rams that we don't see in the Buddha's teaching. Another two
rams. Two rams, those are the poem rams and poem-less rams.
Poem rams are like, according to teaching in the category, this we don't see, but they are, can be
like, God's rams. God is not the singular, he blurs.
And high status of the living kind of like, God-made situation, they're called gods. There's many
male gods, female gods, and so forth. Gods and so many beings, it's according to teaching.
And these rams, I had such beautiful poems in the teaching, that their bodies are so beautiful.
Beautiful, they are not also completely kind of like, like too much with the, with the, to together
, so all kind of like that, contractors.
They have the every pleasures, not only that kind of contract with that. And they are also, poems
are so beautiful, so, therefore, it is named as poem rams. Those are gods, God's rams.
There's another God's rams, those are poem-less rams. And those are, they don't have mental,
physical body, existing, but they are more like mental bodies. Mental body, and therefore, it's
named as poem-less rams.
So this, no matter what, even this kind of appearance, they are, but still they are in samsara, s
amsara. So, and that, therefore, then here, said, may all the beings of three rams, rams, all rams.
And then, said, what, wishing, for example, the Buddha, Samhinde, Badra, what is wishing? Realized
nature of the inconceivable source. That is what wishing, wishing here, inconceivable source.
What is this inconceivable source? It's again, back to the nature of the mind. May everyone
recognize, realize this meaning of the true nature of the mind. They may realize this.
This is what is real now. So that's the really about that sentence. The next one is, then again, is
continually here, more teachings, more continually.
How? Now, Narana is started. Narana is how, Narana is started. Again, it's the same source, but how
the Narana is started.
And how? Kunduzanko, or the Samhinde Badra, Buddha Samhinde Badra, here, Kunduzanko also said here,
to Kunduzanko, or is also named the Buddha Samhinde Badra, Buddha Samhinde Badra, rich
enlightenment. That's what here.
Now, this is, this is started with the page, two last lines. Furthermore, I, Kunduzanko proclaims.
But Kunduzanko, Buddha Samhinde Badra, according, in the Buddha teaching, or the Vedic teaching,
Buddha Samhinde Badra, or the Samhinde Badra, Sanskrit name, and Kunduzanko is a Tibetan.
That translated Samhinde Badra into Tibet as Kunduzanko, in both. They are the same. Same. And Kund
uzanko, or the Buddha Samhinde Badra, according, Vedic teaching, is the original Buddha, the first
Buddha.
That means, generally, in Buddhism, there are so many Buddhas, male Buddha, female Buddhas. But
Kunduzanko reached the Buddhahood at the very beginning, very beginning times.
And many times, you say, pre-modial times.
Kunduzanko reached the enlightenment Buddha instantly at the beginning time, and that is known as,
this Buddha is known as past Buddha.
Original Buddha, past Buddha, in Sanskrit, Sanskrit called Adi Buddha, the original Buddhas. And so
now, here, how Kunduzanko reached enlightenment at the beginning times?
And so that means, means, at the very beginning time, we and the Kunduzankos are the same. We are
all same. That means we all have the same nature.
There's no different naturals. As we have everyone as nature of the mind, me, you, and everyone,
and similarly, Kunduzanko, the Buddha Samhinde Badra, had the same nature.
But we, sentient beings, are deluded, deluded, and the Kunduzanko, undeluded, reaching
enlightenment.
How that happened? That is what they explained.
And this is now, here, I said, this nature, so here, so this is the Paramore icon of the programs.
Then we moved to the page 3, and here I said,
The nature of the source of the, of the free from the cause and conditions. Nature, the nature of
the source is free from the cause and conditions.
This nature is what? Again, same thing, going back to the nature of the mind.
The nature of the mind is free from the cause and conditions. That explained at the beginning time,
here, too.
We said it's uncompounded, self-arising, same thing, so it's just we went before. So it's free from
cause and conditions.
And that nature, if you realize this nature, nature, then you get enlightenment. If you didn't
realize it, then we are deluded.
So therefore, Kunduzanko, the Buddha Samhinde Badra, immediately recognized that.
And that is how, it's happened again, I've told every moment, that in the teaching set, at the very
beginning time, beginning time, I mean, nature is the same.
We all have the equal nature. There's not any difference at all.
But since nature is free from the cause and conditions, but it has all the energies, nature has all
the energies, again talking, nature of the mind, has all the energies.
That's what it's called, because of that energy is self-arising. Self-arising display comes.
This self-nature, in the Dzogchen teaching set, this nature, it's surely the nature of the mind,
inherent, natural inherent, the enlightenment.
It's enlightened, I mean, already. What the enlightened call it is, are known as three kayas, or
three Vastams.
Vastams of the Dharmakaya, Vastams of the Sambokaya, Vastams of the Nirmakaya.
These three potentials are residing simultaneously with your and the mind, the nature of the mind,
as well as for the Samhinde Badra too.
So, what is now, as I talk now, these three kayas, again, as I talk more about the simple way, what
is Dharmakaya of the mind, of the nature of the mind?
When you look to the nature of the mind, have you looked to our own, have you tried to read our
mind, your mind?
Every say, "Where is your mind?" or "My mind?" Have you tried to search your mind? Mind? You can't
find anything.
You can't find anything. That is known as in Buddhism, emptiness, many times, using terminology,
emptiness.
This emptiness is what that nature is open, free, total freedom, openness, vastness.
That nature is called Dharmakaya Vastams. So, we have Dharmakaya right now.
Now, that mind, even though we can't see anything, we can't find anything, but mind has energy,
energy.
Energy is radiating energy, clarity, sometimes clarity energy.
This clarity energy of the mind, what kind of brightness is not like peaceful object, peaceful
furniture, or peaceful blank state.
It has some radiating energy that we can feel, see.
That is truly known as Sambogaya mind. That is the richness.
Mind is not blank state, empty state. It is full of reach, as we talked before.
All the richness, everything comes from this. That potential is right there.
This nature is, as I said, again, Sambogaya mind, Sambogaya Vastams.
Because of that open, because of nature, Dharmakaya is so open, so vastness, so empty in a way,
openness,
and this energy is so evaporated and so is there in that, because of that combination, then there
is arising mind.
That we can see, "Oh, this is good." "That's bad." "Oh, this is nice." All these mind, these
thoughts are arising.
This is known as, in the Dhokriti teaching, Namagaya mind. This is Namagaya Vastams, actually.
This is enlightenment status. Now I see these three things, like empty, clarity, arising energy,
abruptly, comfortably, arising energy. Even there are three things.
I mentioned that, but in reality, they are not separated. All is in all. All is the same.
It's nothing that we can divide three pieces, different objects, places. All is the same.
That is known as union of trikayas, inseparably. Inseparable union. This is our nature of the mind,
your nature of the mind. Because of that, we can get enlightenment. We can reach, become the Buddha
.
We can make the change. All comes from us, and we can make the change as we want, as we need.
It could say sometimes, but it will make. No, it's true, it could say sometimes.
But in Dhokriti teaching, you can change within 12 years. Really, have you put the joy forever?
We work on your Saturn. There are so many great masters who really achieve that.
But then it takes time sometimes, that's it. So this is called the soul, the ordinary nature.
Now, I talk to go back to the Kunduzango. When this nature arises,
natural arise, that energy is that arise, rapidly arises.
That happens to the Kunduzango, the Buddha, Samhana, Bhaddara, and to us happening.
When the Kunduzango, when that happens, immediately,
Kunduzango recognized it is on his or her own display, display.
He or she, this Buddha, Samhana, Bhaddara, didn't met any distractions as subject objects.
Didn't met for the levels. Immediately recognized its displays.
That moment, whole games changed, and then known as become the Buddha,
instantly become the Buddha. That moment, he instantly become the Buddha, fully awakened.
You see, this is the own display, that as moment is arise, that moment he discovered,
or he realized his display. At that moment, everything is transcendent, changing everything,
every show or every display, and become the Buddha.
Buddha, Samhana, Bhaddara, or Kunduzango. But what we send in beings, that arises,
we didn't recognize immediately, we labeled as subject object.
That explains it later here too. And then we start wondering, can we, as nightmare,
for example, we made nightmare, we recognize this is our own dream,
that will be stopped very soon, that nightmare.
We didn't recognize that, we struggle with that, nightmare goes on, on.
These same things. Then, that, that happens. So here, that is the, I mean,
I'll highlight it now, meaning that. So that, now nature of that, nature of this,
the source is, is, and now we go back to the page 3 again.
In page 3, the source is realized by sub-continent arising awareness.
Sub-continent arising, and when it arises at that, what Buddha Samhana Bhaddara did here,
is not named by arrows and exaggeration, and exaggeration, such as inside, outside.
He didn't label, or Buddha Samhana Bhaddara, she or he didn't label at all.
Immediately recognize that. It was not obscured by this here, next one.
It is not obscured by the darkness of the mindlessness.
This now does. Clearly see it is self display of your own nature, nature, nature.
Since, since the nature is never obscured at the beginning time, never obscured.
Nature, nature is fresh, pristine, and clean, unobscured, cool.
And soul is, always remain in the, in the, in the next line.
It's cultivated this fresh, pristine awareness. All the time it is.
This is what the Buddha Samhana Bhaddara or the Kondu Samhana Bhaddara realized.
When you have these realizations, since it is realization, no matter what the external thing is
happening, happening,
there is no nothing, nothing really need to be scared or afraid.
There is nothing kind of going, anything changes at all. It's all display. It's all display.
As in the dream, whatever course comes up, reality, nothing is happening.
It's all display of the dream. Same thing, same thing.
So, then we will move continually. If you remain in that pristine realization status,
then as Buddha Samhana Bhaddara reached enlightenment, then here, next page.
And then there's unattached to the private object of the sensory pleasures.
That also, you're not, since you're not attached, private sensory pleasure object is not become
obstacles to you,
or the hindrance to you. For those reasons, invariant teachings,
there is nothing to be given up, nothing to be rejected, nothing to be accepted. All is fine.
Everything is attached there. And what are the five object of the sensory pleasures? What are those
?
Food.
Yeah? Good, that's good.
Wealth.
That's it, wealth.
Companionship.
What?
Clothes.
Clothes? Of course, true.
Is it true?
One is true.
Sucker.
Sucker balls.
Sucker balls, that's the Sucker balls.
God.
God in the world.
So, if you relax on the pristine in this natural status, then everything is great.
Everything is so fine. But this fact that your object is actually,
also we kind of go more official in the Buddhism.
Then it is related with the five senses.
What are five senses?
That's it, five senses.
Yeah, five senses, that is the eye senses, ear senses, nose senses, tongue senses,
and then body senses.
And then sometimes also number six senses, mind.
Mind.
But here say the five, so we stay with five.
Five.
So, what are the, now, so those are senses.
Object of five senses, what are those?
Those are like, those are the pleasure objects.
Pleasure objects.
So, eye senses, pleasure objects is beautiful forms.
No matter whatever that is, beautiful forms.
Ear senses, object, pleasure objects, ear senses is beautiful musics,
beautiful songs, whatever that is.
And then the pleasure object of the nose senses is fragrance, delicious fragrance, that is.
And object of the pleasure object of the tongue senses is then,
delicious yummies, gourmet food, those all things, all these things is tongue.
And of course, then it eventually will be tummy too, is the yummy to the tummy.
Eventually it ended up to the yummy tummy.
And then play your object of the senses.